>> vSpencer Schneidenbach: Streams, and
I just love this phrase from the Microsoft
docs, an abstraction of
a sequence of bytes.
So, streams are everywhere in our world,
and
lots of times those streams are abstracted
away from us in the form of a byte array,
or in the form of an object
that we can just read from.
So, sometimes a stream gets open,
we don't know how many bytes
are coming through, right?
We just don't know, necessarily,
how many bites are coming from Google.
Their content length header inside their
HTTP response could be lying to us,
so, we treat that as a stream of
bytes coming all the way down.
And they are fundamental concepts for
handling input and output inside of .NET.
You don't have to understand them super,
super deeply for
the purposes of this course,
or the ASP.NET course,
but it's important to
understand that streams exist.
It's just, basically, an array of
bytes that's moving along a pipe, so
it's water moving along a pipeline.
You don't wait till the water
gets to the end sometimes,
sometimes you wanna process that water,
drain that water off,
or do something with that water as
the water is flowing through the pipe.
And that's what essentially a stream is,
so there's a few streams that are common.
We're gonna be focusing mainly on
FileStreams, and an object called
MemoryStream, those are probably the more
important streams to talk about.
So, when you use a FileStream, you're
essentially telling the file system,
cuz you're on a Windows machine, you're
on a Mac, and you wanna open a file and
do something with it, right?
You wanna do something, you wanna write
to it, maybe you're flushing to a log.
Maybe you're processing an incoming
document and you need to write a report,
and you need to drop
that report into a PDF.
So, a FileStream is a way for
you to open up a connection to that file,
take an arbitrary number of bytes,
and that's important.
Streams, essentially an arbitrary
number of bytes, and
then write it to that file,
and then be done.
So imagine, instead,
if you took a 50 megabyte file and
you read it all into memory first.
You just downloaded it,
very much like we did here,
just downloaded the whole
thing in the memory.
For downloading, google.com probably
doesn't matter that much, right?
It's probably not gonna be
more than a few megabytes,
I don't know how much it's gonna be,
the page itself, probably not even that.
But when we're talking about large files,
maybe it's a movie,
maybe it's several photos.
Maybe it's a ZIP file of several photos,
and
you have an application
that's processing those.
Do you really want to take all
of those bytes, like this,
and put them into memory right away?
And then just have 50 megabytes,
or 500 megabytes, or
an arbitrary number of megabytes
hanging out of memory?
Probably not, so it's best to stream
those things to their final destination.
So, what you can do, for instance,
is open up an HTTP request,
take that stream, and
then open up a file on the file system.
And take those bytes as
they're being downloaded,
and put them into the file system, so that
way you skip putting that into memory.
I see this mistake, I bring this
up because it sounds obvious, but
I see this mistake all
the time in .NET developers.
.NET has lots of constructs for
dealing with streams, and
most of the time they convert and
use those streams as byte arrays.
So, FileStreams, either reading from or
writing to files, are very easy.
Notice that our streams are all
using using statements, and
that is because a stream
is an unmanaged resource,
at least it can be a representation
of an unmanaged resource.
So, we need to make sure that we dispose
of said resource at the end of
the time that we're using it.
Because otherwise, if we didn't,
we'll keep this file open,
we'll keep our hand at what I`d call a
handle on a file, we'll keep that locked,
and maybe other people can't access it,
or other programs.
This is probably the most common
stream that I see, is MemoryStream.
Which is to say that it is,
literally as it sounds, a stream of data,
but it's fully in-memory, so
you get an arbitrary number of bytes,
it's essentially a byte array.
And MemoryStreams, like I mentioned,
are super useful, but
if not a little overused.
It's oftentimes,
I see a lot of developers put things
into memory when they don't need to be.
Though it's useful for in-memory storage,
for small amounts of data,
or if you don't wanna use a file for
whatever reason, but
I tend to find that
MemoryStream gets overused.
However, you need to know that it exists
as a way to represent a stream of bytes,
you can represent it in
memory as a MemoryStream.
I wanna call out one last thing,
kinda going back to that example,
of what I'll see people do.
They'll take a file, they'll download it,
they might do something with it, some
processing, they might do that in-memory,
but that's usually not the best way.
Oftentimes, when I am doing applications,
where I'm writing a program that needs to
read some data on some
remote company's machine.
It's a company we've contracted with, and
we wanna be good stewards of their data,
right, and their resources.
So, we'll open up a file handle and write
to a temporary file to write some data,
and then delete it without
using MemoryStream.
So, as I mentioned, there's things
you need to know about streams,
mainly that they exist.
We'll talk about them a little more
in the ASP.NET Core course, but
they're just something that you kinda need
to be aware of as you're going down your
programming journey.